# Codes for *"*Searching the mechanisms of mRNA buffering: the releasing-shuttling model*"*
Qirun Wang & Jie Lin
202308
#


## Softwares and packages
> MATLAB R2021b
* Curve Fitting Toolbox 3.6
* Parallel Computing Toolbox 7.5
#

## Overview
> ### Simulations
  The codes for simulations and figures are in this directory.
> ### Parameter_determination
  The code for the determination of the basic parameters is in this directory, as well as an example result of the basic parameters used in the simulations.
> ### Solve_values
  The codes for the symbolic solutions are in this directory, as well as an example result of the symbolic solutions used in the simulations.
> ### Data
  The experimental data used in this work.
#

## Descriptions of all files
+  ### Read_me.md
   The readme file. 

+  ### Data
     + ### Data_Berry2022.xlsx
       Data of the global genetic perturbations from Berry, et al., 2022 (Figure 2a and b).
     + ### Data_Sun2013.xlsx
       Data of the global perturbations of mRNA metabolic factors from Sun, et al., 2013 (Figure 2c).
     + ### Data_Swaffer2022_V.xlsx
       Data of the mRNA production rates and the degradation rates during cell growth from Swaffer, et al., 2022 (Figure 3b).
     + ### Data_Swaffer2022_RNAPdepletion.xlsx     
       Data of the temporary changes of mRNA after depleting half of Pol II from Swaffer, et al., 2022 (Figure 3e).
     + ### Data_Chappleboim2022.xlsx
       Data of the temporary changes after acute depletion of Xrn1 from Chappleboim, et al., 2022 (Figure 4a).


+  ### Simulations
     + ### Positive_Feedback.mlx
       The simulations for the positive feedback model where mRNA activates its own degradation.
       (Figure S1b and c) 
     + ### Negative_Feedback.mlx
       The simulations for the negative feedback model where mRNA inhibits its own production. 
       (Figure S1e and f) 
     + ### X_unnecessary.mlx
       The simulations of the modified model where X is not necessary for transcription.
       (Figure S2) 
     + ### Y_shuttles.mlx 
       The simulations of the modified model where Y also shuttles.
       (Figure S3b)
     + ### Global_perturbation.mlx
       The simulations for the global genetic perturbations.(Figure 2)
     + ### Global_perturbation_noFeed.mlx
       The simulations for the global genetic perturbations without the negative feedback of nuclear mRNA on transcription.
       (Figure S4) 
     + ### Cell_growth.mlx
       The simulations of mRNA buffering during cell growth.
       (Figure 3b, c, d, and S5)
     + ### RNAP_depletion.mlx
       The simulations of the temporary changes of mRNA after depleting half of Pol II.
       (Figure 3e)
     + ### X_depletion.mlx
       The simulations depicting the temporal changes after acute depletion of Xrn1.
       (Figure 4a, b, and S6)  
     + ### X_depletion_perturbations.mlx
       The Comparisons of temporal changes between WT cells and the cells with a perturbed parameter, after acute depletion of Xrn1.
       (Figure 4d, e, and S7) 
     + ### XY_depletion_timescale.mlx
       The simulations of mRNA dynamics after an abrupt drop in the mRNA production rate in cells with different total numbers of protein X or Y.
       (Figure 5a)
     + ### Transcription_inhibition.mlx
       The simulations of the dynamics after inhibition of Pol II.
       (Figure 5c)
     + ### Viral_infection.mlx
       The simulations of the viral infection.
       (Figure 6b) 
     + ### Gene_specific_RSM.mlx
       The simulations for the gene-specific RS model.
       (Figure 6d) 

    
+  ### Parameter_determination
     + ### Parameter_determination.mlx
       The code for the fitting and optimization process to determine the basic set of parameters. 
     + ### Basic_parameters.mat
       The example result of the basic paramters generated by *"*Parameter_determination.mlx*"*. This data set is used in simulations.


+  ### Solve_values
     + ### Solve_values.mlx
       The code to generate symbolic solutions of the steady-state values of each molecule using Eqs. 8-15 in the main text. 
     + ### Solve_values.mat
       The example result of the symbolic solutions generated by *"*Solve_values.mlx*"*.
     + ### Solve_values_noF.mlx
       The code to generate symbolic solutions of the steady-state values of each molecule using Eqs. 8-15 in the main text, in which the feedback is removed from Eq. 13. (Figure S4) 
     + ### Solve_values_noF.mat
       The example result of the symbolic solutions generated by *"*Solve_values_noF.mlx*"*. (Figure S4) 